I can see in here now!
Night vision magic, huh?
I guess Spriggans aren't completely useless.
Wow. That kind of hurt my feelings.
But it'd be good for you to
memorize the spells you have.
Illusion magic's all you'll really be good at though.
Illusion?
You can cause others to see things.
Too bad it's not very useful in combat.
Well, it's not like it's set in stone that lame
Spriggan magic can't be of any use in battle.
Damn, there goes my self-confidence.
These feelings I had buried are crying out.
kakushiteta kanjou ga himei wo ageteru
I'll hold on to these steadfast vows.
tashikana chikai wo te ni
Seeking but a miracle,
kiseki dake wo motome
I wander in the unrelenting darkness
kienai yami wo samayou
If I remain here, I'll only be trapped in the present.
doko ni ireba nidoto mirai miru koto dekinai
The moon beckons again tonight,
koyoi mo tsuki ga sasotte
and while I still can't voice my feelings,
mada kotoba dasenai kedo
I continue to scream inside my heart.
kokoro no naka sakebitsuzuketa
These feelings I had buried are crying out.
kakushiteta kanjou ga himei wo ageteru
I'll hold on to these steadfast vows.
tashikana chikai wo te ni
If only I could have become a little bit stronger,
ato honno sukoshi dake tsuyoku nareta nara
I would have flown far above these skies
me no mae ni aru kono sora koete yuku kara
and reached out to the future beyond here.
kono saki ni aru mirai ni te wo nobasu kara
Instead of cramming the incantations into your head,
try memorizing the meanings behind the words of power,
so you can remember the spells by their effects.
I didn't expect I'd be doing something that reminds me of English class in a game.
Just so you know, high-level spells are around twenty words long.
I'd much rather just be a pure fighter then.
Quit whining.
Oh, I got a message.
Sorry, give me a second.
Sure.
Recon, again?
It's probably nothing important though.
"As I thought, my suspicions
were spot-on. Be careful, s"...
What is this?
"S"?
Sa... Shi... Su... Huh?
What's wrong?
Well, the thing is—
Papa, there's something approaching us.
Monsters?
No, they're players.
And a lot of them. Twelve in total.
Twelve?!
I'm getting a bad feeling about this.
Let's hide until they pass by.
But where?
Well, just leave it to me.
H-Hey...
If you need to say something, try to do so quietly.
The magic will be dispelled if we're too loud.
Gotcha.
They'll be in view soon.
What's... that?
Huh? You shouldn't be able to see them yet.
It's not a player. A bat, maybe?
I see something small and red.
H-Hey, what are you doing?
That's a high-level Tracing Searcher!
I have to get rid of it!
We're running for it, Kirito-kun!
Is hiding again not an option?
The enemy will have already
noticed that the Tracer's gone,
so they'll know we're onto them.
Besides, that thing was a fire-attribute familiar.
Which means the members of the party chasing us are...
Salamanders, huh?
But what's a group of them doing here?
Wow, it's a lake.
Looks like we're in the clear.
Don't get too excited and trip!
Shoot.
That won't work.
Should've told me sooner.
You're too hasty.
This is an earth magic barrier, so it can't be destroyed by physical attacks.
Can we jump into the lake?
Nope.
There's supposedly an ultra-high level
water dragon-type monster lurking in it.
It would be suicidal to try and fight it
underwater without support from Undines.
So our only option is to fight, huh?
Well yes, but we might be in over our heads.
If Salamanders are using such high-level earth magic,
that means one of them is a considerably skilled mage.
Leafa, it's not that I don't have faith in your sword skills,
but could you stick to just supporting me?
Stay back and focus on healing me.
That way, I'll be able to concentrate on fighting.
They came prepared to fight Kirito-kun!
Kirito-kun!
At this rate, it's just a matter of time before his HP runs out.
That's enough, Kirito-kun!
It'll only take a few hours to fly back here if they kill us!
Let's call it quits now!
Never.
I'll never let anyone in my party die as long as I'm standing.
That's the last thing I'd let happen!
Damn! What's with this guy?!
This is our only chance!
Chance?
Please use all the mana you have left to block the next magic attack somehow!
B-But what would that do?
Papa, now!
That incantation is for an illusion-type spell.
But all it's gonna do is make him look like a monster.
Is that you, Kirito-kun?
Fools!
Maintain the formation!
Only his form and reach were changed!
If we stick to the plan and stay in formation, there's nothing to worry about!
C-Cast explosion magic!
R-Retreat...
Retreat!
Please stop!
Kirito-kun, spare that one's life!
Quite the show, huh?
O-Ouch...
Now, tell me whose idea it was to attack us.
G-Go ahead and kill me!
Why you...
Man, I really went all out.
Hey, nice fight!
That was a great strategy.
If I was alone, I'd have been a goner.
Wh-What, Kirito-kun?
Leave this to me.
So, I'd like to make a deal with you.
These are the items and Yrd that I got from your friends.
If you answer my questions, I might give them all to you.
Seriously?
Absolutely.
Men.
They're such simple-minded creatures.
I think it was in the evening when Jitax-san—
Um, he's the leader of that mage unit earlier.
He sent me a text asking me to get online.
When I did, I found out he was planning to hunt a couple of players with more than ten people.
I thought it was just bullying,
but when I heard that they were the people who beat Kagemune-san, it made sense.
Who's Kagemune?
The captain of the lance unit.
He's an expert at hunting Sylphs, you see.
But yesterday, I saw him running back from a hunt with his team wiped out.
You're the one that beat him, right?
So why did Jitax-san target us?
It seemed like he had orders from the higher-ups.
Something about you guys interfering with our plans.
What plans?
They don't tell anything to underlings like me,
but it seems like it was something big.
When I logged on today, I saw a massive army flying north.
North?
Are they aiming to clear Yggdrasil?
Of course not.
We're trying to save enough to get every soldier ancient-weapon-grade equipment or better first.
That's everything I know.
Are you going to keep your end of the bargain?
Yeah, I'd never lie about a trade.
Say, that rampaging monster from earlier was you, right?
Probably.
Probably?
This happens to me sometimes.
I go berserk during a battle and
forget what happened afterward.
Whoa, scary.
Well, I sort of remember what happened earlier.
When I used magic as Yui told me to...
Now!
I grew ridiculously large.
My sword was gone, so I had to use my hands.
You were snacking on some of them too.
Yeah, that reminds me...
It was a pretty fun experience getting to see what it's like to be a monster.
So... could you even taste them?
They had the flavor and texture of well-grilled beef.
On second thought, forget it. I don't want to know.
Wow...
So this is Lugrue, huh?
O-Ouch...
You were asking for that one, Papa.
I'll say!
I was trying to lighten up the mood with a joke after all that chaos.
Try that again and you'll be well-grilled beef.
Y-Yes'm.
Oh, right.
Didn't you get a message before we
were attacked by those Salamanders?
Oh, I forgot about that.
Come on, Recon...
Maybe he went to sleep.
Why don't you try contacting him in the real world?
Well then, I'll log off for a bit and check.
Just wait for me here.
Take care of my avatar, Yui-chan.
Huh?
Keep an eye on Papa so he doesn't try any more funny business.
Roger that!
Seriously...
Hello, Nagata-kun?
What on Earth's going on?
You finally picked up!
Jeez, it took you long enough, Suguha-chan!
I ran into some trouble in-game.
I-It's terrible!
That jerk Sigurd is after us.
A-And that's not all.
He sold out our leader, Sakuya-san!
Sold out?
What do you mean?
Tell me the whole story.
But there's no time.
Well, you know...
Yesterday, when we were attacked by Salamanders in the Elder Forest area...
Suguha-chan, didn't it seem strange to you?
Strange? What about it?
Sigurd said he'd be a decoy and lured three of them away, remember?
Oh yeah, that's right.
That's not something Sigurd would do.
Wouldn't he normally make someone else do it?
Yeah, that's true.
But what are you getting at?
Well, you see...
He was actually working together with them!
Odds are, he has been for a while!
Huh? Do you have any proof to back that up?
I... had a feeling something was wrong,
so I used invisibility magic to follow Sigurd around since morning.
Then, in a back alley, he and his men put on invisibility cloaks and disappeared,
so I was positive that he was really up to something.
There were two strange men waiting for them deep inside the sewers.
Then I realized that they were Salamanders!
I knew I'd discovered something big, so I listened in,
and I heard them say that the Salamanders had a Tracer following you.
So what happened to you?
I'm still in the sewers, paralyzed by a poison arrow.
The Salamanders captured me.
So that's why you called me in the real world.
And he's not just dealing with them!
The thing is, Sakuya-san is signing an
alliance treaty with the Cait Siths today,
so she supposedly snuck off to a neutral region.
Sigurd plans to march a massive army of
Salamanders straight to the signing ceremony!
I have to go!
Welcome back, Leafa.
Welcome back.
Kirito-kun, I have to apologize.
There's something I have to go do right now.
I don't really have time to explain,
and I probably won't be able to come back here either.
Then I'll hear you out while we're moving.
Either way, we can only leave here by foot, right?
All right.
So, in forty minutes, at an area near Butterfly Valley,
the Sylph and Cait Sith leaders will have a conference.
I see.
Mind if I ask a few questions?
Go ahead.
How would the Salamanders benefit from attacking the Sylph and Cait Sith leaders?
First, they'd be able to prevent the alliance.
The Cait Siths wouldn't stand for having their leader taken down because the Sylphs leaked information.
I bet.
At worst, it would start a war
between Sylphs and Cait Siths.
Also, if they kill the leader, they'd
receive thirty percent of her estate
and be allowed to occupy and tax the capital for ten days.
That's a high price to pay.
With that being said, Kirito-kun...
This is a Sylph problem,
so there's no reason for you to come along with me.
We probably won't even be able to get back here alive,
which means we'd have to travel from Swilvane again.
No, if anything...
If you want to get to the top of Yggdrasil, it might be best for you to side with the Salamanders.
Assuming the Salamanders succeed, they'd be in the perfect position to challenge Yggdrasil.
Since you're a Spriggan, they
might hire you as a mercenary.
So, even if you were to kill me now, I wouldn't blame you.
After all, it's just a game, so anything goes.
Kill if you want to kill, and steal if you want to steal.
I've met far more people who thought like that than I would've liked.
And it's true in a sense.
I used to think like that too.
But now I know better.
It's because it's a virtual world that
there are things we have to protect.
Someone very dear to me taught me that.
If you let your desires control you in this world, it'll change you even in the real world.
A player and their character are one and the same.
I like you, Leafa.
I want to be your friend.
And no matter the reason,
I would never kill such a person
for my own benefit.
Kirito-kun...
Thank you.
Sorry if I sounded condescending. It's a bad habit of mine.
No, I was happy to hear that.
Oh, shoot!
I just wasted our time, didn't I?
Yui, we're gonna run, so navigate for us!
Leave it to me!
Give me your hand.
U-Um...
Here we go!
H-Hey... there are monsters!
There's the exit!
Higher and higher, I stretch out my hands
takaku takaku kono te wo nobashite
and pray once more, "Someday, someday."
kitto kitto tte mou ichido negau kara
My endless feelings are lost
tomedonai omoi wa
in these ordinary days.
nichijou ni nomarete
They waver and change shape yet again.
yurameki nagara mata katachi wo kaeteitta
I wonder if I'm too late,
imasara mou osoi kana
but there's no answer in sight.
henji mo nai jimonjitou
Every decision is up to me,
subete wa sou jibun shidai
whether it's the beginning or the end.
owari mo hajimari mo
Higher and higher, I stretch out my hands.
takaku takaku kono te wo nobashite
Flying towards the gentle light, I flap my wings.
yasashii hikari wo mezashite habatakuyo
I embrace the passion
kokoro ni tomoshita
that flared up in my heart
jounetsu mo daite
and pray once more, "Someday, someday."
kitto kitto tte mou ichido negau kara